
List of design documents needed for Certification
1. Basis of Design document (sometimes called a Program Definition, Concept Design, or Concept Design Report) that should include the following:
•	Background and objectives of the data center, including all the design parameters and levels of redundancy (e.g., N+1, N+R, N+N, or 2[N+1]) in each critical space. State if it is a colocation data center, an enterprise (dedicated to one user) data center, a stand-alone building, part of a campus, or a shared building. Include the number of floors, floor areas, total floor area, and the activities carried out on each floor (office space, plant space, data center space, etc.)
•	A building description that includes size of the computer room and establishes power system and cooling system capacities, as well as individual capacities of all power and cooling system critical capacity components. Include information such as the total facility power requirement, IT power requirement, transformer capacities, engine-generator capacities, diesel rotary uninterruptible power supply (DRUPs) machine capacities, uninterruptible power supply (UPS) capacities, UPS battery ride-through time, cooling tower capacities, chiller capacities, room cooling unit capacities, fuel storage, and water storage capacities
•	An electrical system description that includes the total IT load in each space and the detailed analysis of the total electrical load on the engine-generator system. Include design load calculations and distribution path descriptions, along with the redundancy of critical equipment in each space
•	A cooling system description that includes cooling load per critical space and total cooling system load. Describe all components, such as cooling towers, chillers, pumps, and room cooling design load calculations and distribution path descriptions
•	The Tier objective – Tier I, Tier II, Tier III, Tier IV, or a combination of different Tier objectives in different spaces
•	If there is a phased approach to construction, include all of the above for each phase
2. Architectural sheets depicting size, purpose, and access to spaces making up the facility.
•	Floor plans and layout for each floor, identifying floor areas
•	Identification of room names/numbers, showing purpose for each room
•	Identification of doors and accessibility
•	Elevations and section views as necessary to clarify design
•	Tier III/IV requires layout drawings of all critical electrical, controls, mechanical, and fuel pathways
•	For Tier IV, architectural plans may also require information about building materials and cross sections to show means of Compartmentalization
3. A floor plan of all critical spaces showing intended arrangement of IT, power, and cooling equipment. Show the room layout of each floor, including room numbers and names to identify the purpose of each room; show doors and other access. Specify external plant space, server rooms, telecommunication rooms, UPS rooms, electrical rooms, internal plant rooms, etc., showing the location of all critical equipment (engine generators, DRUPS, UPS, UPS batteries, main electrical panels, cooling towers, dry coolers, pumps, chillers, room cooling units, etc.)
4. Electrical schematics (single-line diagrams/schematic diagrams) for both medium voltage and low voltage systems showing the characteristics of the power paths from the service entry to the computer device point of connection; show the power distribution from incoming power through to the server racks and the cooling plant and equipment. Electrical schematics must also be provided for all electrical control systems
5. Electrical equipment schedules showing number and capacity of all backup power production equipment (typically engine generators), continuous power systems (typically, UPS [static or dynamic] and batteries), distribution transformers, and branch circuit distribution. Include a unique reference identifier label for each and every piece of equipment (as shown on the layout drawings), the equipment model number, equipment capacity in kilowatts (kW), and location. Schedules or specifications for each piece of equipment which has been selected should be provided by the manufacturer. Bid- or tender-type specifications can be accepted for equipment for which a manufacturer has not been selected
6. Electrical panel schedules for all mechanical equipment (lighting and receptacle schedules are not required). Show the unique distribution board reference identifier (as shown on the layout drawings), distribution board location, the upstream distribution board that supplies power to the distribution board, the breaker reference numbers, the downstream distribution boards, and equipment supplied with electricity from the distribution board
7. Electrical load calculations, listing all in loads that will be supported by the engine generators and UPS systems, in kilowatts (kW). Load calculations should show load during normal operations, as well as during maintenance; include fault scenarios for Tier IV only. Load calculations must be provided for each discrete phase
8. Mechanical schematics (one-line/flow diagram) for the cooling system (including chilled and condenser water piping, valves, and instrumentation for chilled water systems, or similar level of detail for direct expansion or other cooling systems); this should also include the evaporative cooling makeup water system (if applicable). Supply schematics or single-line diagrams for engine generator and DRUPs fuel supplies; cooling tower or adiabatic cooling water storage and piped distribution to cooling towers or coolers; condenser water from cooling towers, hybrid coolers, dry air coolers, etc. to water-cooled chillers; and chilled water distribution from chillers to room cooling units. Also include schematics or single-line diagrams for refrigerant pipes from outdoor condenser units to indoor cooling units; adiabatic cooling water distribution from water storage tanks to adiabatic direct or indirect air room cooling units; or air distribution systems for ventilation and cooling. Include all pumps and valves, plus any sensors and meters. All components must have unique reference labels. Drawings and documents are also to include any water leak detection and containment systems
9. Mechanical equipment schedules (including ambient temperature design conditions and capacities), showing a unique reference identifier label for each piece of equipment (as shown on the layout drawings), the equipment model number, equipment capacity in kilowatts, and equipment location; include condenser and/or chilled water flow rates in liters/second (l/s), cooling water flow and return temperatures, supply air flow rate and temperature, return air temperature, electrical power requirement, outside air temperature, room air temperature, any freeze protection systems, glycol content of cooling water, specific heat capacity of glycol solution, and the freezing point of the glycol solution. Schedules or specifications for each piece of equipment which has been selected should be provided by the manufacturer. Bid tender type specifications can be accepted for equipment for which a manufacturer has not been selected. Calculations must be provided for makeup water power consumption and, for Tier IV only, Continuous Cooling
10. Mechanical load calculations which list all in loads that will be supported by the mechanical plant, and individual critical rooms, in kilowatts. Load calculations should show load during normal operations, as well as during maintenance; include fault scenarios for Tier IV only. Load calculations must be provided for each discrete phase
11. Chilled/condenser water treatment subsystem (if applicable). If water treatment is critical, then detailed schematics and labeled drawings must be provided and equipment included as in the above mechanical equipment schedule
12. Computer room/raised floor cooling subsystem, including makeup air and humidification subsystems. Also include details on the critical room cooling units as described above
13. Engine-generator fuel system schematics or single-line diagrams and layout plans showing equipment and pipework routes from storage tanks to engines (bulk storage, point-of-use tanks, pumps, piping and valves, treatment, control system, power supplies, fuel treatment, and leak detection and containment). Calculations must be provided for fuel consumption
14. Fire system (detection and/or suppression) electrical riser diagram showing the connection of critical equipment to the fire system. Include schematics or single-line diagrams of the fire detection, fire alarm, and fire suppression systems and detailed drawings of any connections between panels and electrical and cooling plant if these are shut down on activation of any of the fire detection, alarm, or suppression systems. Detailed description of whether the system is designed to shut down any critical systems
15. Site plan showing telecommunications paths (from entrance to property to the first point of demarcation; the first point of demarcation is where the incoming fiber terminates and before the communications and data cables are distributed throughout the data center). Provide plan drawings to show the route of the incoming fiber from the site boundary to the rooms where the telecommunications server racks are located. This could be a server room, or could be a dedicated telecommunications room, sometimes called a meet-me room (MMR), MDF, MDA, communications (comms) closet, etc. For any telecommunications rooms outside of the server room, specific IT loads must be identified as well as indication of active or passive loads
16. Emergency power off (EPO) system (if required by local authorities having jurisdiction or project owner)
17. Sequence of Operations for the systems above (Tier IV only)
18. Electrical and mechanical system locations and layout of the distribution paths on architectural sheets showing Compartmentalization for complementary systems (Tier IV only)
19. For Tier IV, provide fire compartment plans and plan and cross section drawings to show Compartmentalization of complementary services (e.g., System A and System B)
